W-11934047-connected-apps-revamp (#246)
mulesoft/docs-access-management: modules/ROOT/pages/connected-apps-developers.adoc

To foster a consistent authentication experience for end users, third-party developers with their own websites or web apps can allow users to log in using the *Sign in with Anypoint Platform* option.

NOTE: Only developers who have the organization administrator permission can create apps and specify access scopes in Anypoint Platform.

== Create a Connected App

* Your organization can own up to 2000 connected apps, and each connected app can have up to 1000 scopes.

> * Your app is owned by your organization; any organization administrator can control it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your app is owned by your organization. Any organization administrator can control it.
```

* A unique `clientID` is automatically assigned and can’t be modified. The `clientSecret` has no expiration date by default but can be modified.

> You should also determine the use-case on whether the app is internal to your company or is a third-party application that can be distributed outside of your organization. To create your app, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should also determine whether the app is internal to your company or is a third-party app that can be distributed outside of your organization. To create your app, follow these steps:
```

include::partial$include-nav-connected-apps.adoc[]

. In the *Owned Apps* section, click *Create App*.
. In the *Create App* page, complete the following fields:
.. Name +
A Unique name for the application
+
.. *Type* +
The type of Connected App to be created. Based on the type selected, the required fields varies.
+
.. *Grant types* +
The grant types to be used with this app. +
Note: Additional information may be requested based on the grant type you select. For more information on grant types, see xref:connected-apps-developers.adoc#grant-types-and-token-flow[Grant types and token flow].
+
.. *Website URL* +
Users can visit this URL to learn more about the app.
+
.. *Redirect URIs* +
Configure which URIs users should be directed to after authorization. Type the URL and click *Add* to add it to the list.
+
.. *Scopes* +

> The level of permissions to be provided to the app. Click on the *Add Scopes* button to select the scopes. For more information, see xref:connected-apps-developers.adoc#endpoint-scopes[Endpoint Scopes].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The level of permissions to provide to the app. Click *Add Scopes* to select the scopes. For more information, see xref:connected-apps-developers.adoc#endpoint-scopes[Endpoint Scopes].
```

+
. Click *Save*

[NOTE]
====
The connected app ownership gets transferred to the root organization owner
when the user who created the connected app:

> * is deleted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* is deleted.
```

> * is removed from the root organization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* is removed from the root organization.
```

> * loses administrative privileges over the organization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* loses administrative privileges over the organization.
```

By clicking on the app name in Access Management > *Connected Apps* > *Owned Apps*, organization administrators can edit the

> owner of the connected app and transfer the ownership to other administrators.

Reviewer: Organization administrators can edit the owner of the connected app and transfer the ownership to other administrators. To do so, click the app name in Access Management > *Connected Apps* > *Owned Apps* and make the appropriate edits.

Reviewer: that is just me being picky ^

> By clicking on the app name in Access Management > *Connected Apps* > *Owned Apps*, organization administrators can edit the
> owner of the connected app and transfer the ownership to other administrators.

Author: ```suggestion
Organization administrators can edit the owner of the connected app and transfer the ownership to other administrators. To do so, click the app name in Access Management > *Connected Apps* > *Owned Apps* and make the appropriate edits.
```

====

=== Modify the Client Secret for a Connected App

include::partial$include-nav-connected-apps.adoc[]

> . Click on the connected app from the list to enable Edit mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click a connected app from the list to enable Edit mode.
```

Reviewer: Or Select an app...?

. In the *Secret* field, enter a secret of your choice.
. Click *Save*.

image::connected-apps-edit-mode.png[Edit mode for a connected app]
+
[calloutlist]
. The name and username of the owner of the connected app
. The name of the connected app
. The ID of the connected app
. The client secret of the connected app

[[application-allowlist-dev]]
== Application Allowlist

Users with the Organization Administrator permission can enable an allowlist to control which apps can access their users' data.
When your app is added to an allowlist, only the set of scopes associated with the app are reviewed and approved by the administrator.
If you add new scopes to your app at a later date, you are unable to request those scopes from users until the admin re-approves your app.

> Existing authorizations and new authorizations using the already-allowlisted set of scopes continue to work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Existing authorizations and new authorizations using the previously allowlisted set of scopes continue to work.
```

Reviewer: OR: Existing authorizations and new authorizations using the set scopes from the previous (original?) allowlist continue to work.

For more information, see xref:connected-apps-org-admin.adoc#application-allowlist-admin[connected apps for administrators].

[[grant-types-and-token-flow]]
== Grant Types and Token Flow

OAuth framework specification describes several grant types for acquiring access tokens for different use cases.
Anypoint Platform supports `authorization_code`, `refresh_token`, `password`,  `jwt_bearer`, and `client_credentials` grant types.
For more information and examples on how to use each grant type, see the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/access-management-api/minor/1.0/pages/Connected%20App%20Examples/[Connected App Examples] in the Access Management API.

=== Authorization Code

> The `authorization_code` grant type is the commonly used grant type to authorize the app to access user’s data. A sample flow for the authorization code grant type could be as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `authorization_code` grant type is commonly used to authorize the app to access a user's data. A sample flow for the authorization code grant type could be as follows:
```

> . A developer creates the connected app that acts on behalf of a user with authorization_code grant type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. A developer creates the connected app that acts on behalf of a user with the `authorization_code` grant type.
```

The access token can now be used to call Anypoint Platform APIs on the user’s behalf.

=== Refresh Token

The `refresh_token` grant type is used to grant access to user data when the user isn’t logged in.
To work with OpenID Connect, apps have to exchange refresh tokens for new access tokens after the initial authorization to continue accessing user data.
Refresh tokens expire after 90 days.
Access tokens expire after the user’s session expires.
If the app is using the authorization code grant type, the `offline_access` scope is required to use refresh tokens after the original access tokens expire.
To request a new access token, you must send a request to the token endpoint using the `refresh_token` grant type.
When authentication is successful, a refresh token is exchanged for an access token.

=== Password

The `password` grant type is used when the application exchanges the user’s username and password for an access token.
Because the app has to collect the user’s credentials and its limitation with no mechanisms for things like multi-factor authentication, it is not recommended to use this grant type.

=== JWT Bearer

> The `jwt_bearer` (`urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:jwt-bearer`) grant type is used when the application wants to receive access tokens without transmitting sensitive information such as the clientSecret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `jwt_bearer` (`urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:jwt-bearer`) grant type is used when the application wants to receive access tokens without transmitting sensitive information, such as the clientSecret.
```
